roles
how to use em
maintenance plan
monitoring plan
backup and recovery
Creation of new data files and tablespaces, and/or
? Duplexing and multiplexing of control and redo log files and/or
? Creation of some USERs

? Alternative methods of backups, exports, scheduled backups, hot backup
? Demonstration of a DB recovery from cold backup or exports or other methods.
? Creation of multiple users and application of appropriate security measures – roles, privileges and profiles.
? Demonstration of security auditing

? Advanced replication between multiple instances.
? Demonstration of Oracles DR standby database option.
? Demonstration of a complex recovery including the application of archived redo logs.
? Demonstration of XML database
? Oracle Virtual Private Database
? Implementation of OS level authentication
? Demonstration of Oracle’s Tuning features
? Demonstration of table partitioning options

1. A working Oracle Enterprise Database implemented on your Virtual Machine.
2. Demonstrated Client connectivity to the Oracle DBMS Server using at least two client applications. (for example, SQL Developer, and Enterprise Manager Console.)
3. Appropriately created user accounts. I suggest demonstrating 3 levels of users (Roles) – for eg. Administrator, Power User, and Guest style users.
4. Appropriate levels of security implemented via ROLES and PRIVILEGES for Roles.
5. Documentation for the installation and environment – (consider the audience to be a reasonably competent DBA).
6. Individual personal log/reflections/timesheets. Record time spent and other items of interest.
7. Implementation and demonstration of the Enterprise Toolset – this includes the browser based Enterprise console.

Develop and document an implementation plan ?
?
? Specify the database ?
Configuration options, tablespaces, extent and block size, rollback allocation etc. Redo (Txn) log files – how many, archivelog mode?
Which Oracle Version are we using, 9i, 10g, 11g ?? 64bit / 32bit?
? Research and apply necessary upgrades/patches to Oracle installation. (note installation media will be at a certain version, a variety of “patches” may well be current and need to be installed – you need to figure this out). ?
?
? Specify a security plan ?
Implement appropriate user profiles, access rights, DBA accounts etc
? Develop User documentation ?
?
? Develop Technical Documentation ?
?
? Project management considerations ?
?
? Change management plan, Develop Change control procedures ?
?
? Research and develop implementation plan for Oracle Apache HTTP server, test web scripting PHP, XSQL or Oracle JSP pages showing connectivity to DB (this would be highly regarded). ?
?
? Test Client installations ?
?
? Test RDBMS from client installs, can you create a table, create a procedure, etc. ?
?
? Test database web access from clients ?
?
? Develop DBA Maintenance plan, scripts and schedules ?
?
? Develop performance monitoring plan / scripts ?
?
? Develop a backup and recovery plan. Have you backed your DB up? Do you know how to? ?
?
? Develop a disaster recovery plan. ?

Security
Develop documents and implements database security policy and plan, create Oracle ROLES, user names and logins, assign roles to logins and document a comprehensive security policy.

Database Administration
Design, develop, document and implement Oracle Enterprise RDBMS.

Maintenance / Upgrade
Research existing Oracle installation – provide/share information with DBA team, discover and document via Metalink upgrades to Oracle installation and apply upgrades as necessary. Develop and document a DB backup strategy, DBA maintenance scripts and schedules for existing DEV database instance. Modify scripts so that they can be run against the new database instance.

Internet Development/implementation
Design, develop, document and implement browser / database connectivity application. Test and demonstrate web client to DB connectivity, PhP, XSQL, XML, JSP,
